# Product Vision

The old school way of Product Roadmapping, the timeline format, is no longer valid. A timeline roadmap, by its very format, means that you are giving a due date and duration to every thing you're putting on that roadmap. That's a whole lot of assumptions you're making there.

One assumption you're making when you make a timeline roadmap is that you know how long each feature is going to take. 

This might be easy in the short term when you've got clarity from your developers on delivery plans, but it gets harder and harder the further out you plan.

Having a timeline roadmap also forces you to assume that nothing else is going to come in and disrupt your plans. No new competitors, no changes in the market, no need to change your plans.

Instead;

1. Start with a Product Vision

For (Target Customer)
Who (statemet of need or opportunity)
The (Product Name) is a (Product category)
That (key benefit, reason to buy)
Unlike (primary competetive alternative)
Our Product (statement of primary differentiation)

2. Think outcomes, not output

Your roadmap should be tracked to company-level objectives, not a pile of features for features' sake. Here are few ideas;

User Growth, Engagement, Revenue, Reduce Churn, User Experience, Infrastructure.

3. Switch out your timeline for time horizons.

It makes sense: You've got greater visibility on the things right in front of you, and less on the things further away. Each column represents a change in visibility and flexibility in your roadmap.

Create 3 Columns and separate them as (i) Current (ii) Near Term, and (iii) Future.

Combine the vision, your objectives, and your time horizons to articulate your product strategy in a new way. Ditch the timeline roadmap and embrace the lean product roadmap. 

Remember, your roadmap is not meant to be a perfect plan of everything you're doing.

Your roadmap is a prototype for your product strategy. 

It's meant to change as you learn more, and a lean roadmap format gives you that flexibility.

At the end of the day, the value isn't in the 'roadmap' itself. It's in the process of roadmapping, which is inherently a discovery process.

(Just as the value of a prototype isn't the prototype, but in the prototyping and all of the learning that comes from it).

And so that's why timeline roadmaps are causing product teams to fail, and why the switch to lean, discovery-centric roadmapping processes is so important.
